yeah uh cool uh next up we have peter
reba
uh talking about uh sequel lotus
uh i'm giving us a preview uh this is
what will be the back end of insta lotus
which uh maybe
you can provide a bit more context on
but also i recommend reading the
proposal for it
because it's really good uh hey we will
go off
yes let me see if my screen share shares
[Music]
everybody can see a terminal right yep
perfect
okay cool so uh this uh
journey actually started like way back
in december when i needed
some sort of very up-to-date essentially
a real-time
uh sentinel so to speak and we didn't
have this at the time so
i started digging into things and this
is a combination of about like
one month of work you know spread out
over time so
uh i will just walk through what you see
on the screen
and it will become obvious like what
this is all about
until later so what you see right now is
uh
a lot of demon actually running uh
you know it is sync to chain it's like
five five two nine eight if you go to
fuel fox you can see that
it is all well it's 297 because you know
fuel fox itself is
lagging behind a little bit but you know
everything works correctly
and uh it will at
right now it's 30 second mark it goes to
99 so and so forth
now what is interesting here this is an
entire full node
but uh if you look at our uh free space
uh we basically take only 7.9 gigs
uh and um no tricks they're like no
uh no disks or anything like this
attached to this thing uh
in fact if we go and look in the lotus
folder
and look in the data store there is no
chain
uh directory at all this entire thing
works fully under network
taking a completely remote block store
and using it you know as we go
one of the advantages of not having
a badger in store this is a full node
that you know that takes like no
uh amount of ram at all it just you know
sits there and runs and does its thing
and on the server side uh to which i
just switched
we have uh basically just post wrestling
there
and it uses also essentially no memory
at all
now uh made the um
the demo gods be kind what i have here
on this box
is another lotus which once again is the
same database but with its own
state and everything so it shares the
entire block store
with the one that is running here that
is you know
uh continues to operate but it has been
stopped
quite some time ago so we are now at
555.302 and i shut down like a 214.
so i'm going to put it back up and
it's going to start working and uh you
may notice it starts instantly there is
no like
you know time to open badge or anything
like this it's like there right away
and uh right now it starts from uh
i did not resize something here one
moment
we want to see just the top
oops just the top two
yeah so it's starting from you know five
five one three where i pretty much shut
it down
and uh what we're going to do is while
it's been down
the other node has been constantly
populating the block store so
we're just going to jump forward without
uh you know having to
do anything else and let's see if this
works uh
let's see if you where are we now
uh let's take this too
guys so ideally if i do this
and if i do this
it should and it just took it
so we're now uh four uh
blocks away from being synced and uh
if we do this in
about in about uh
like this current epoch is
weird ah i remember we actually need to
restart photos after we do set head
because
it will not interrupt the thing that is
going right now so now if we start it
it is going to be at the right place yep
there it is
uh and now to basically say that it
needs to
do four and it will be ready to go
uh and that is
almost always the insta lotus uh
proposal that i that i wrote
although uh i still have like uh
stuff on disk and so on and so forth so
it's not fully fully in place
uh but that is the part
that basically would allow somebody to
have a replica of you know of a database
like this
and just stream it to something like uh
will's graphql interface which
here we literally don't run anything
aside from
a postgres uh a replica that is
streaming uh you know all the changes
from this uh
main note in and just here stateq server
nothing else and this thing will tell us
that we're now at 300 where
is which is where we left
uh this uh node at and if we refresh now
we should
see once it gets to 302 the graphql is
one block behind
always so once this goes to 302 the
graphql
will uh you know do things for us uh
as expected and yeah so this
entire uh like contraption is basically
to allow places like euro for example to
run
a bunch of nodes out of the same data
store
which because this is uh
like a grown up database so to speak it
is designed for
multiple reads over few rights
and it is extremely optimized for huge
data stores so we can
like throw all our three terabytes of
data into this thing
and it doesn't bad at night it just
continues continuous working
uh and yeah now one more thing that i
want to like go over here real quick uh
if you see here we scroll that it took
about nine or seven seconds to
validate the tip set the reason this
happens
is because uh in addition to
uh keeping track of all the blocks that
go in we also keep track of the chain
so we actually keep track of orphans and
stuff like that within this very same
store
so that you can stream out the replica
and somebody by just looking at the
database knows exactly where the head is
what orphans are
like uh you know what the chain looks
like from the perspective of this
particular
instance that has gone into uh right
into this database and each individual
instance like both this instance and
this instance
arrived to separate places in the
database they have their own
instance name spaces so that you
potentially could run
uh i don't know like 20 notes that all
right to the same place
and you will see all of them how are
they seeing
orphans how the chain evolves from their
point of view aggregate in the same
place
and the other thing that we do here
is that every individual block that is
sent into this block store is actually
parsed on the fly
and its entire ancestry is being
recorded in the database
as well so you can actually do graph
walks
through the chain or through individual
blocks or whatever within
false graphs with just recursive queries
and nothing else and uh
this actually has implications also like
uh
if we decide to reuse this for something
like ipfs
there is a way to retrofit this for
garbage collection because
then you have a reverse index of i'm a
blog
and who actually is mentioning me and if
nobody is mentioning me i'm just going
to delete myself
and then you do the scan again and you
basically go level down a little down
level down at which point you basically
will have
garbage collected here in the star store
without any locks without any
without anything uh and yeah all of this
is already on
uh github uh i need to grab somebody
from lotus to
basically figure out how how to massage
some of this stuff in
uh will has already written a
uh front end for this so that tommy is
trying to
like get um uh
sentinel to run off of this up-to-date
data store
and um yeah that's it any questions
uh i think questions in chat have
already been answered this is fantastic
work
um uh how many of our project partners
are already aware of this because a few
of them will like this eh yeah so
uh very little actually uh yeah
uh it it wasn't clear until the very end
that it's all going to work and perform
correctly but yeah i mean
clearly it does so yeah we can start
like talking about
how to productionalize it and stuff like
that
uh yeah i think uh i think that will be
important to do yeah a lot of people
will probably want it
uh and if if it's working well i think i
think we have something great here
uh the pm team will probably be really
interested in knowing about this as well
if they aren't already
it feels like it's definitely like you
know this is
this is big news capital b capital n
so it goes goes to all the peeps and
then eventually blog posts and videos
and
everywhere so people are aware of the
new options for them
to do the things better i love it thank
you very cool
uh all right uh last call for questions
i don't i hope i didn't miss it just on
me yell if you have any questions